Welcome back.
Let's write our first tests now.
We're going to just have a simple function that we run and this program will create in our main dot
pi file a let's say let's make this a little bit bigger we'll say that we have a function called do
stuff.
Yes very descriptive function now in here we'll just say that we accept a number and we'll just simply
return num plus 5 a very very simple function so let's say this was our code that builds our app.
So this is just one function.
But hypothetically we have many functions that we want to test because these are actions that we're
going to perform in our code so the way unit test works is like this.
We have our test file and after we import our unit tests we want to import while the file that we want
to test in our case its main dot pi.
So let's just import main which is right here or we can just import the function as well if we want
but in our case hypothetically we have many functions here so we can just import mean and use all the
functions available there.
Now the way unit test works is we create a class and then name it whatever you want in here we'll have
all our tests.
So let's just call it test Main and we inherit inside of this class.
What unit test gives us.
Which is a test.
So this is just a standard way to work with unit test.
So we're inheriting whatever unit test test cases and now we have that functionality available in our
test main class.
Now in here we can start testing and writing code to test.
So how can we test main do stuff.
Function well we simply say hey let's write a function in here or a method because this is part of a
class and say hey I want to test do stuff and in here l receive self
now in here I can test my code so I can say if no in here is equal to 10 I'm just giving it a random
number then I'm going to say result is going to equal main dot do stuff
so remember do stuff comes from Maine which is the function that we want to test.
So I want to run the do stuff function and in here give the parameter num which I've just given here
or let's just call this the test prep.
So this test program we're going to run the code and we're going to get a result and this last line
is the key part of unit test unit test allows us say self dot assert equal and assert equal is something
that we get when we inherit from unit test and assert equal says hey assert or make sure that these
two parameters are equal in our case.
I want to test that.
The result is equal to well in our case 10 plus 5 should equal 50 all right.
Now finally in here we just run the unit test and the way we run the unit test because this is just
one test that I get.
I could have done multiple tests.
All we need to say is unit test dot main which will run the entire test file within the test me.
Now if I run this now all I have to do is say Python 3.
My command line and say test dot by
and I get OK ran one test and well super fast in zero seconds that was nice and quick.
Now let's say I do something else where I assert equal that this equals 10.
If I run this
I get a fail.
What failed will the test to do function failed on line 8.
So that is right here.
We have an assertion error.
We got 15 but we expected 10.
How cool is that.
So I now have one failure.
So I need to fix my code so something's not right here now in my case.
This is because I've asserted the answer to be 15.
But what if we create a another test in here and check.
Hey what if we have test do stuff too.
And this time the test program is actually going to be a piece of string.
So what do we want the function to do well in our case and maybe it gives us a error maybe a value error.
So I'll just say value
because this shouldn't work.
If I run this now let's clear this.
If I run this now all right I have two tests but I have one error and I see here that I'm getting an
error saying that hey I'm getting a type error can only concatenate string not eight now.
In this case what actually fails is the test file because what we've just done actually fails our function
but right away I see that.
All right well this is something that we need to fix.
So I can go back to Maine and say hey I want to make sure that we catch any errors like type errors
or value errors.
So the first thing I can do is just say Aunt number and if I save that to make sure that we convert
something to an integer and I run this right now I get a value error Invalid literal so it can't be
run on this piece of string.
OK so another thing we can do to improve our code is to wrap it in a try except block.
Right.
And then we can catch.
So let's say except and then here accept a value here and let's say as here and in here we can do whatever
we want.
So we can return if we want the air or we can even raise the air in our case let's just return the air
and I'll show you why in a second.
Now if I ran this you see that my test fails.
But now it's actually an assertion error the assertion error is coming from our test file over here
and I'm asserting that hey I want to make sure that the result and the value error are equal.
Now you see over here that there's a bit of a mismatch.
We have a value air over here doesn't equal the class value air.
Now this is a bit of a trick where because we're returning an air it's actually an instance of the value
air class so we need to do something like this.
We need to say hey is instance and say What is it an instance of wall is a result an instance of value
air like this.
But the problem here is that let's make this a little bit bigger.
The problem here is that assert equals is going to expect two parameters.
Two things that must be equal.
But here I just want to make sure that this returns true that the result is an instance of value here.
So how can I do that.
Well besides assert equal we have a few other methods that unit test gives us if I go to the unit test
documentation here on the first line says the list of search methods.
So here I see that these are all the methods for asserting and testing our code.
The one that we probably want is this one assert true to check if something is true so if I do assert
that this is true and I ran my test let's clear this and run my test again.
There you go.
I ran two tests and everything seems to be OK.
And again to go over this why is this.
Well I'm running my test file and then I'm going to run the test do stuff which is going to be OK then
I do the second part where the test parameter is something that we don't really want which is just a
piece of string.
The result is going to give us a value error because we've caught this error and we're now returning
the error.
And then finally we run this piece of code.
Hey is this true.
Is the result going to be a value error.
So you see what we're doing here.
What we're trying to do with our test is to improve our function by simply trying to break it.
So we want to break our function and see Hey can I trick this function into giving me an error.
And then once you do that and a test fails then you go back to the function and try to fix it kind of
like we did here which is really really cool.
This is a common practice with testing where you try and break things until well the function becomes
perfect.
Now I want you to take your time here and see if you can break this function and maybe add a couple
more tests in the next video.
I'm going to add a few more to make this function even better.
I'll see in the next one by.